I'm Wesley Morris and this is
Cannonball.
I don't know how you decide which
television shows to watch, but for some
reason, subway ads,
like actual ads that you see in the
subway, they have actually had a giant
influence on me. They are definitely the
reason I started watching The Bear 3
years ago because I was basically
seduced by a great poster. Every time I
go down into a station, Jeremy Allen
White's silent movie eyes, these two
joyless planets will be rolled upward as
I headed down. That original poster was
just a marvel to me. There was something
about the combination of people in it
and how Renaissance or maybe even
medievally religious it looked. The one
character in the poster making eye
contact was a young black woman who
looked like a saint. Lo and behold, the
show turned out to be almost precisely
what the ad was glorifying, dining as a
religious experience. And the people who
were doing that cooking are these angels
with personal demons who might be
suffering like Christ himself, but for
our dinners. The person doing the most
suffering is Karm Berato or Berzado or
Karm or Carmy or Bear. But also the way
Jeremy Ellen White plays him anyway.
[__]
>> Get the [__] off. Thank you.
>> Carmen is this talented Chicago kid
who's been out working in the world of
fancy restaurants and then he comes back
home to take over the family sandwich
shop after his brother's suicide. And
what felt so special to me about the
bear is that it's really about the work.
Does excellence require single-minded
pathological obsession? Or can it be
achieved through nurturing and
communication? That alternative vision
of work is expressed through Sydney
Adamu, the woman making eye contact with
us in that poster. Sydney wants to cook
in a kitchen that is free of the
toxicity and buffoonery that Carmy and
the other dudes on the show seem to
thrive on. But that then means there's
this tension between the two of them
about how an excellent restaurant is
even run. And now after four seasons of
this show, the new season came out about
a couple of weeks ago, that tension has
become evident in the show itself. The
bear has become a fancy place, not
unlike the restaurants Cli was trained
in.
I mean, I'm torn more than once when
I've struggled with what this show was
arguing. I've actually thought about
Samine Nasra. She's the co-host of the
podcast Home Cooking and the author of
Salt, Fat, Acid, Heat, a cookbook that
for lots and lots of people has been
essential to how we understand what
we're doing when we cook for ourselves.
But Samine has also cooked in some of
the great American restaurants, namely
Sha Panise in Berkeley. And using her
book, you also better understand what
chefs are doing when they're cooking for
us. And what I wondered, does she think
of the bear and its depiction of food,
chefs, and the restaurant as an
expression of human philosophy? Here is
my conversation with Seamine.
Zamine, welcome to Cannonball. Wesley,
thank you so much for having me. I am so
glad you're back.
>> Thank you.
>> I'm so excited to listen to everything
you have to say, and I feel so honored
to get to talk to you about this.
>> Well, I'm glad you're here. I I guess we
should start with a really simple
question. I mean, I want to talk to you
about season 4, but I also want to talk
to you about why you're even watching
this show in the first place. You've
lived it. You've worked in kitchens
before. And I'm just wondering
why you would even bother. Is it Is it
Is it trauma porn? What's the
attraction? What's the attraction of a
show like the bear for a person for a
professional cook and chef?
>> It's interesting. I
>> Oh, thank you. Well, thank you for
wondering. And you're not wrong. Okay.
>> If the show were only trauma,
>> I probably wouldn't have made it very
far.
And I did come to it late um because
when it first came out in 2022, I was
undergoing like my own major sort of
personal trauma. My dad was in the
hospital dying in sort of this
incredibly like melodramatic way. So my
nervous system was really shot.
>> Okay.
>> And so I didn't watch it immediately
when it came out. I think it came out in
the summer and like that was not a time
I had any bandwidth. And so, but then it
kind of kept gathering steam like
culturally and people were referring to
it and everyone was asking me if I'd
watched it. So, I sat down and I tried
to watch a couple episodes. And the
first season by and large and definitely
the first few episodes are so stressful
and traumatic that I I really limped
through season 1 and I did not know I
was like why I didn't get it. And by the
end of season one, really in the last
like episode basically, I felt like
>> I under it all became clear to me. Okay.
>> There's a monologue that Carmy has sort
of at the Alenor meeting
>> and that for me was the first thing I'd
ever seen in any cultural media
portrayal of cooking that felt
>> true to the experience of being a cook.
I I made this plan where I was going to
go work in all the best restaurants in
the world and I got the [__] kicked out
of me
and I separated herbs and I shucked
oysters and clams and oonie
and I cut myself and I
>> and why you spend your 20s, your 30s
working while everyone else is, you
know, uh having enjoyment and delight
and and you keep going back into this
hardcore horrible like lowpaying
thing and there is something that drives
us and that was the very first time I
ever saw anybody communicate that. I
felt like I could speak through the
food, like I could communicate through
creativity and that kind of confidence,
you know, like I was finally I I was
good at something that was so new and
that was so exciting and I just wanted
him to know that. And [__] I just
wanted him to be like, "Good job." And I
remember I even called like my TV agent
and I was like, I have creative jealousy
like they did it. They've done something
really special. And so you understand
the why underneath it and um and that
it's in pursuit of something deeply
meaningful to him. And we all have that.
I am watching this show as a diner
and I'm watching the show as a diner who
really does think about how my food is
being made and who's cooking for me.
This is the first time I had really been
made to think about what we are asking
of these restaurants in some way. And
what we are asking from these
restaurants is a thing that I think
Carmy is too proud to deliver. I mean,
by the third season, he does this
extraordinary thing that I would love to
hear you talk about, which is
essentially decide that they're not
going to cook the same thing every night
at the bear, which is the restaurant
that the that the show is named after,
which is also his nickname, Carmy's
nickname, which is Bear. And that's
because the family last name is Berzato
>> or Bzato
>> or Brazado or Brazado.
>> Bzato
>> because we're in Chicago,
>> depending on if you're in Italy or
Chicago.
>> Yeah. But Carmy decides, and I'm gonna
just like be in Carmi's head for a
second, that he's basically too good.
His ambition cannot be contain con
constrained by the way restaurants
function, cooking the same dishes at
least several times a week. He wants to
change the menu every night.
>> Right. I'm going to change it every day.
>> The cavatelli, the the the ravioli,
>> everything.
And everybody in the kitchen is like,
"Uh, come again." Everybody like in the
dining room is like, "Sir,
>> yes, I feel like this is maybe where
you're going." And this is also what I
felt like. Certainly, you know, season
3, episode 1 is sort of where he reveals
this idea that he's going to start
changing the menu every single day.
>> Yes. And I feel like season 3 is really
where the show itself mirrors this kind
of insane ambition like and and this it
was sort of like season one was this
sort of teaching us you know about this
world and the chaos and sort of by the
end we're we're all on this team and oh
my god they found all the money in the
tomato can tomato jars and like you're
like all amped up. Season two is this
beautiful sort of journey of learning
for so many of these characters and you
get the backstories of these people and
you start you really start to love them
and you're you're really rooting for
them and they building this restaurant
or they were going to do it.
>> And so I was I came to season 3 like
yeah let's see what they're doing. I'm
so excited for them. And then season 3
starts
>> and I kind of remember watching season 3
episode one and almost just being like
I'm I'm done this show. I can't watch it
anymore. They went the wrong direction.
Just going more toward fine dining. Fine
dining. He's trying to be Renee Red
Zeppy and have a NMA and have top 50
restaurant in the world. Whatever.
>> He wants the Michelin star.
>> He wants the Michelin star. Like, yeah.
I just was like, you guys made a U-turn.
Like, this was not where we were headed.
Interesting. You know, you were you had
a vocal rejection of that culture as you
were building this restaurant and then
something happened and broke inside of
you and now you've decided to go for the
very thing that you acknowledged was
toxic and and destructive.
>> You're talking about both car and the
show
>> and both of them are doing it right
because also the show in season 2 wins
all these awards and so you can feel it
as a viewer. It's like they're like
getting more and more ambitious. And
then I think there were some changes
that hap I think I think a um one of the
women who had been really sort of uh
really close collaborator of Chris
Stoers, the creator, the showrunner and
the writer and director of many of the
episodes. I think she left after season
2. And so in a way I almost felt that
because the show kind of became more
sort of masculine in its
>> goals and it and in its um
manifestation. And so that was sort of
what turned me off a little bit. They
were building this thing that felt
transgressive
>> and felt in opposition to
>> sort of and very invocally. It wasn't
even like implicit. It was explicit like
we are going to create something that
exists
>> in response to the thing that I come
from and this like toxic world, right?
>> Yeah. Talk more about the transgression.
>> I mean having this rag tag like really
the rag tag crew and sort of Marcus the
who becomes the pastry chef. All these
people are just like in the kitchen
functioning barely functioning as line
cooks
>> and they all like season two you get to
have this incredible experience of them
h learning mark my two favorite episodes
in season 2 are when Marcus goes to
Copenhagen. Yes
>> and just like sees the world. And then
my other very favorite episode probably
to date is Forks where Richie goes and
stodges in at Ever at the very fancy
restaurant. Dodging is basically you're
an intern at a restaurant. You do not
get paid. You're there to learn.
>> You're working for free to learn.
>> Chef, are we done with the forks?
>> Yeah, chef. Almost. Chef, let me ask
you. Every star shine [__] forks his
whole first [__] day.
>> First week.
>> So, he's there for a week and Richie,
you know, is this sort of wild caveman
crazy person, right?
>> Yeah.
>> [__] you, cousin.
>> And a [__] a moo, you know, I mean,
but but there's so much more to him. And
this performance is incred like it's one
of the great performances as it turns
out that TV has been given in the last
20 years. We should just say that Eban
Moss Backrack is playing Richie. And one
of the things that makes the performance
so good is there's just this there are
these things that he can do with silence
and the way that his eyes communicate
like registers a feeling that he both
intends and can't control.
>> And then there's just this sandwich,
this little lasagna that forms like
between his hairline and his eye and his
eyebrows that also communicate all this
meaning. There's just so much going on
with this guy.
>> For sure. He is just I am always so
moved by the way he gives this character
so much humanity. Like you feel things
sort of seeping into him and it is this
really he's who we all are on some
level, right? We're messy and we're
growing.
>> And so he goes in season 2 in this
episode forks, he goes to this
restaurant where he's like really mad
about being sent there and he's
suspicious of these people in their tux,
you know, their fancy suits.
>> Yeah. He's a workingass Polish guy from
Chicago. He's the most Chicago that
Chicago has to offer.
>> Yeah. And so he's just mad. He's so
Yeah. resentful that this is the
environment that he has been assigned
to. And so then the whole the whole
episode they're sort of reverently
referring to this chef, Chef Terry. Chef
Terry. Chef Terry. But you never see
Chef Terry until the very end. Yeah. And
you I assume Chef Terry
>> is a man. Yeah. I I made the same
assumption in my mind. It was he was a
very specific type and then this
beautiful thing happens.
>> You know where the polish is? The
[__] keeps moving.
>> Try that drawer over there.
>> Because I mean the person who shows up
is Olivia Coleman. And this is the great
Academy Award-winning Olivia Coleman.
>> What are you making?
>> I'm just peeling mushrooms for the lamb
to
>> peeling mushrooms.
>> Yeah. It's just a nice little fun
detail. So when the diners see it, they
know that someone spent a lot of time on
their dish.
>> And he asks to help.
>> So why do you do this?
>> I do it for a living.
>> No, but like don't you have stodges that
do this [__]
>> I think time spent doing this is time
well spent.
>> Time.
>> That's what it's all about.
>> Yeah, I think so.
>> Until at some point he understands like,
oh, it's about taking care of people and
that can take whatever form. It's about
surprising and delighting and and also
about like
>> he's I think very mad and resentful that
he's been given these forks to polish.
That's why the episode is called forks.
>> And eventually they come back to
explaining like you have to take care of
even the smallest details in order to do
the very best job. And that that sort of
taking pleasure in that work is is so
important. And it's very sweet. Like the
way they shoot it,
>> it just is going like very gently
between the two of them.
>> He believes in you, you know.
>> What makes you say that?
>> He told me he said you're good with
people. He's not wrong.
>> Well, nice talking to you, chef.
>> Likewise, chef.
>> Wow. It's me and my eyes just welled up.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's so beautiful this scene. I I
love it so much.
>> Thank you. Oh my god.
>> I really loved just even the phrase time
well spent. And I have spent a lot of my
own I I think this was very moving for
me because a lot of my own sort of
work has really centered around the
value of time and you know even the book
that I am just about to put out is like
the heart of it is time is our most
limited resource in life. It's the only
thing that we can never get. It's not
nonrenewable resource. It's our most
valuable currency. So like the most
special thing we can do for anyone is to
share our time with them. And one way to
do that is by cooking for them or being
with them.
>> I love that you're expressing you're
you're thinking about this scene as an
expression of time like time well spent
>> um as time as currency. But but because
I I'm thinking about the way time has
been functioning on this show. It is
always present, right?
>> Yeah. Of how time becomes almost a
character in the show.
>> I think that there is another way that
time functions on this show or at least
it used to um back in season 1 where
you know it it happened in one of my
favorite episodes uh not only of this
show but maybe of in in the history of
television. And if you give me like a
hundred great episodes of television
list, I'm definitely going to try to get
episode seven of season one of the bear
on it and I probably would put it
somewhere in the 50s or 60s.
>> Wow.
>> And basically Karm has taken over the
like his brother's old Italian sandwich
shop, the beef, and it hasn't turned
into the bear. And they're starting to
do some of this European cooking on the
menu. And lo and behold, this new this
new cooking
the restaurant gets a review and it's
pretty good.
>> Word I would choose now after my most
recent meal is at the well loved if not
shabby establishment is elevated or
elegant.
>> And it is a pretty glowing review. This
review winds up creating like some real
interest in the restaurant, courtesy of
this takeout app that they use on this
tablet that nobody knows how to operate.
And all of a sudden,
>> within like I think 10 minutes into this
episode, the ticket machine goes ham.
It's just vomiting tickets. This is like
to me the the big sequence in Good
Fellas.
>> Oh, I don't I did not connect that.
>> All right. Where I mean, I don't know if
it's directly like that, but the stress
level is the Good Fella sequence where
Henry is being chased by the feds in the
helicopter and he's got all these
errands to run and the sauce to make.
>> I was cooking dinner
>> and it's just all hell is broken loose.
The stress level that's in this one
scene is equivalent to this brilliant
sequence from one of the greatest
American movies ever made. Um, anyway,
here we are in ticket land at the beef
before it's the bear.
>> Oh, I don't know.
>> You left the pre-order option open.
>> Okay. Uh, no.
>> Yes. What's that mean? That means we
have 78 slices of chocolate cake, 99
French fries, 54 chickens, 38 salads,
and 255
mini sandwiches due up in 8 minutes. I
truly am having a trauma respon. This
episode is brilliant because it makes me
so uncomfortable like and every I'm just
like between the phone ringing and the
ticket machines that that that cooks
have nightmares of the ticket machine
sound like truly it's just the worst.
It's like you're behind and then the
ticket machine is going. So that's
already like I still 15 years later have
>> ticket machine PTSD. But what's happened
is before the restaurant even opens
they've pre-sold like the list is crazy.
It's like 300 of this and 170 of that
and 400 of that and they don't have
that.
>> Get it now. Get all 32 chickens. Get
them searing.
>> Starts yelling at everyone like get all
of the food out of the fridge and start
cooking
>> everything on the grill fire everything
right [__] now.
>> He's like literally cook everything. And
I'm like why don't you just cancel those
people's orders? It's okay. Like but
>> but nobody's thinking clearly here.
>> Yeah. Nobody Yeah. It's just chaos.
>> I'm like like virtually hugging you
right now.
>> Yeah. I'm like I'm like curled up in a
pile.
>> I I feel like this this time is
characterizing the nature of that first
season of the show which is like go go
go we don't have we don't have we don't
we have zero time to make all this food.
Um but we have to and you know just hope
for the best.
>> Yes.
>> So that's I think time as pressure in
the first season.
I think in season two, time is an
opportunity.
>> It's a place where, you know, you put
some seed in the ground and over time,
it will sprout something, something that
will grow into something beautiful.
>> And we have a lot more flashbacks and
character sort of development with the
flashbacks and the background of people
in season 2, too, right? Like we're
actually changing what time we're in.
>> Yeah. The season 2 of course is the has
the famous flashback to the Berzato
family nightmare Christmas the seven
fishes dinner.
>> Mhm.
>> It's allegedly one of the great episodes
of television. I
>> I found it so uncomfortable. It It's I
couldn't It was I barely finished it.
>> Yeah. I didn't I didn't enjoy. But I
think by seasons three and four once
once
the business end is taking over what
time means time means a totally
different thing. Time is money and time
is survival.
>> It's survival
>> and the clock is running the other
direction. But it's not going forward.
It's counting down.
>> Yes. The thing that's saving this
restaurant, the thing is is the beef.
the not fancy sandwich. We got to talk
about this, right? We got to talk about
this because
>> I think the thing that maybe bummed you
out about the first two seasons, the
show had taken this turn in its
valorizing a particular kind of of
cooking, right? which is this the the
sort of European trained model that
operates at a like in a in a chef's
tasting which means you're spending
$150 200
>> $500 some places. I mean the bear is
$175 for their like before the wine
pairing.
>> Mhm.
>> But in the back of the restaurant during
lunch hours you can get an Italian beef.
totally for five bucks or whatever.
>> And so there is this the show knows
there's this tension between the fancy
thing and the people's thing. And you
know what I really appreciate about this
show come season 4 is that within that
tension there's this other thing where
there's this episode what they call a
bottle episode in TV where like there's
an episode that's just like Sydney
getting her hair done getting her hair
done. her hair's like her her cousin is
braiding her hair, runs out of hair, has
to go find some hair, which you know,
there isn't a black woman in America
where something like this hasn't
happened to them. I mean,
>> oh my god, my girl I was watching that
with my girlfriend who's black and she
was like, "This is the realest thing
ever." Like, you're in someone's house,
they're like yelling at their child.
>> You are at somebody's house. my niece. I
don't even want to talk about it, but
like I just knew there had to be a negro
involved in that episode.
>> Oh, it was Janix. It was Janixa. Yeah.
The director was
>> Janix Bravo and Ao Ediri like co-wrote
the episode with um Lionel Boyce who
plays Marcus. Anyway,
>> oh yes,
>> there's this wonderful moment where
another moment in which time functions.
It's it stops a little bit both in the
world of the show and in the world of
this relationship where Sydney has to
cook for her cousin's daughter who's
like 11 or 12 years old
>> and she makes her a hamburger helper,
but you know the the the the fancy
>> bear way
>> Sydney version. But at some point, Sid
is like, you know, hey, cuz you got to
come to the restaurant. Come to the
restaurant. And she's like, cuz this is
the south side of Chicago that we're on
now. This is where like this is this is
the this is the black side of the of of
the city. Um, and the cousin's like, "Oh
no, y'all got to put some cheese on that
Italian beef and turn it into like cuz
she wants to be from Philadelphia
apparently and make it a cheese steak,
but she's like, "So, put some cheese on
that sandwich." And so there is also
this acknowledgement that there is there
is a there's a racial class difference.
There is there is a lot of socioeconomic
and racial dynamics happening around
this restaurant that don't really make
their way into the space itself. But but
there's at least a kind of awareness.
But I think that the show is definitely
valorizing. And I don't know what
happens in season five because the the
the Italian beef side of things seems
like it might gain more of a role at
least to the bottom line of the business
because it's making a lot of money. But
I mean, talk to me about what you think
the values are that are being
professed here. Well, to me, I think so.
This was part of I I can't I I don't
have like a full recall of exactly what
the beef revelations in season 3 are,
but I know there must be some that sort
of we we start to realize that that's
that they're making money. I think even
in season 3.
>> So, there's this moment where Ibrahim is
looking at this spreadsheet and
realizing like, oh, wait a minute.
Something is something's going on here.
We're like, we're out of money. But, you
know what is making money? the beef
restaurant that's making money.
>> There's a way where I think I I that pit
that I had in my stomach at the
beginning of season 3 that made you want
to stop watching.
>> But then by the end of season 3, I was
like, "Oh, maybe I was judging too
harshly." And he had to do this whole
journey to get to this place because by
the end of season 3, you start seeing
that the sandwich shop is the thing
that's going to save the restaurant and
that car's thing is a fool's errand. And
the actual like I was like, "Oh, they
kind of knew they were heading to this
place that we they just had to drag us
through
>> this horrible."
>> Well, it got to be it got to do the
thing that it eventually was going to
reject, right? It got to like luxuriate
in the fine dining aspect of of
restaurant work, right?
>> Yeah. I mean, going back to that scene
with Chef Terry that I loved so much, I
think part of what was so moving about
it was that you saw this person, you
know, um, in such an elevated and
respected position, very clearly saying
like,
I choose to do this task you might view
as menial because
it grounds me in my day here and in my
body. It's a sensory task. I'm cleaning
these mushrooms. I have this sort of
feel and smell and touch experience. And
that is so much of what cooking is about
to me. And so in its best moments, this
show conveys
that sort of sensory experience of the
value of cooking. I feel like the the
lesson of Richie
learning that it's time well spent from
from Chef Terry with the mushrooms is
also kind of like a resetting the clock.
>> Like the way that she talks about
cleaning those mushrooms and peeling the
mushrooms is
that it's like resettling because you
know that
>> there's always a tomorrow,
>> right? You're always going to you're
going to be under attack soon and this
is a way to just
>> be at peace with yourself for a little
while before the chaos begins. I think
that there's something about peace
>> and the time that you give yourself to
just experience peace. That time comes
at the expense of this other time,
>> right? Like that clock that's ticking
down that might end in us not being able
to like serve another meal tomorrow.
That is a good use of time. It's the
It's a place in which time is not money
because that's what this that's what
time is now
>> on this show. It's it costs
>> Absolutely.
>> You know, there's an episode toward the
end of season four.
>> Yes. This current season.
>> Yes. The current season. The second to I
think it's the second to last episode
where um Car goes and brings a box of
photos to his mother and it's on what
seems to be the very last day could
possibly be the last day of this
restaurant operating. his the mother he
has a very dysfunctional relationship
with probably turned him into the
[__] that he currently is for you
know he's very neurotic but also like
really coiled in on himself
>> and and doesn't want to let himself have
any pleasure or joy
>> right it's all rage um or withdrawal or
withdrawal right yes
>> um and anytime one of the great things
about Jeremy Ellen White's performance
is anytime he's near this woman who's
played by Jaime Lee Curtis
Um, he makes a face
that I really have never seen an actual
human make to another human being, but
it really is.
>> Describe it.
>> Well, it's it's something like
revulsion, but it's also like something
is leaving my body right now and I'm in
public and I can't do anything about it.
That's the face that he is making
anytime he's in her presence. I hate
this term, but it's the only way to
describe it. There's a there's a term
for a terrible kind of mother figure in
literature and and in olden times. It's
a termant.
>> Oh, I don't know this word.
>> She is a she is a term. It is it is
essentially just an unpleasant like
overbearing
narcissistic volatile.
Um I don't know what her mental health
diagnosis would be but she's almost
definitely narcissistic like at a nine
or 10.
um and is like raised three kids, all of
whom I mean the two living ones are are
in terror of her.
>> Yes.
>> Anyway, he goes to her house with these
photos go on
>> and so he he sort of like decides to go
see her. I think it's one of the first
steps for himself of his own sort of
facing his fears and face and sort of
taking action to do some sort of
healing.
>> Hey, Mark. Hi.
But I'm also aware as a cook that this
is the very last like the season begins
with um the uncles bringing this
countdown clock
>> of how many hours until the money runs
out, right? And they have to they have
this many hours until the until like
they need to figure out how to make this
restaurant financially salient. and it's
still counting down and it's the very
last day. It's the very last service and
this is the day he goes to his mom's
house. And and so I'm like, you're going
on the like this is the day.
>> We'll cover for you. Don't worry.
>> Yeah, we got you. It's okay. And so he
goes and they have kind of this like
pretty healthy interaction. She
apologizes and then she starts kind of
like having like a sugar blood sugar low
and he says, "I'm going to cook you
something. I'm going to make you lunch.
>> You hungry?"
>> Um yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm going to
make you something to eat.
>> Classic narcissism, right? Like I just
bared I just said all the most difficult
things I could possibly say to you after
decades of ne of saying nothing, never
apologizing for all the drinking and all
the rages. And oh, by the way, I'm
feeling very faint. I'm just I just Oh,
I my blood sugar is so suddenly so low.
Haven't had a drink in a year. and oh
this this CocaCola just I don't know why
I'm making her a southern bell. This
woman is hardcore Chicago.
>> She plants the seed and he sort of takes
he takes the he takes the bait and he
he's like I'm going to make you
something. And so in my mind he's like
going to make her a p piece of cheese
toast and go back to work. And then you
know like I'm like I'm like you must
know in the back of his head they're
waiting for him at the restaurant like
they need him. And so then he goes into
the kitchen and she said I think she
says oh I have this chicken. And so he
get takes the chicken out and he starts
boning it out in the very way that
Thomas Keller Keller
>> watch him learn how to how to tie up a
chicken, how to
>> taught him how to like take out the
wishbone and like trust this chicken.
>> And so it's sort of this like visual
reference back to season 3 and and he
goes and does this like act of love. And
in my mind I'm thinking this chicken is
cold. You have to let it come to room
temperature. Then it's going to take at
least 60 minutes to roast. You have to
wait.
>> Let that chicken come to room temp.
>> Yeah. And I'm just like, you have to go
back to work. This is not a small, you
know, this is this is not a small gift
of time that you're giving her. And you
know this.
>> I like your explanation of this. Keep
going.
>> Yeah. And so then, you know, and then
cut to like he's serving her a a plate
of chicken, but I know in my mind that
it's been minimum 90 minutes. Like, and
that's that would be the fastest
possible version of this.
>> We're like at 2:30 in the afternoon
basically.
>> Yeah. And now they're going to he's
going to sit down and watch her eat
this. And what I think what I think
>> he glazed that chicken up.
>> I know.
>> I mean, it wasn't
>> sauce. It had a demig.
>> I mean,
he cooked for her.
>> It's beautiful. And I I think also has
she said that he's she's never eaten
something he's cooked.
>> I think this is the first meal he's ever
made for her.
>> Yeah, I think so, too. And that also
honestly like really felt very personal
to me because many of the people in my
family don't really understand what it
is that I do. And because like I come
from an immigrant family, there's a lot
of like focus on oh the way, you know,
we just want to have what we've always
been eating our whole lives. We're not
interested in your like new fangled
whatever. So um there are many people
like in my family who've never eaten
something that I've prepared. And um so
that also like really sort of sat with
me that this act of him making her
something and her accepting it and him
very consciously giving this time to her
on this very time crunch stressful day
is worth so much. And this is one of the
most stress
human characters I've I've ever watched.
>> Um, in anything, a book, a movie,
television show, um, seem very relaxed
eventually, like to be able to suddenly
have control, right?
>> This is probably the first time in the
relationship that he's been able to
demonstrate both competence.
>> Yeah, it's true. to be an adult child to
this woman
>> and to have control over even just this
little situation and of over his life in
some way. Um, she's given him the
ability to understand the power of his
food somehow in this in this new way.
And that to me is very much in
tension with this other stated goal, you
know, of car me wanting to get a star or
fulfill his ego or cook these very very
fancy dishes that are for only a certain
very small segment of the population.
And this promise that had been made so
early in the show that we are um you
know we are we are subversive cooks,
right? We're we're subverting the
narrative of like fine dining with the
things that we're making and we're just
this like, you know, ragtag crew of
whoever going to make the best possible
things in in this like beef restaurant,
the sandwich restaurant. Like that that
was really interesting and like full of
heart and I I loved that and that was
what kept me there. So to see us veer so
far from that was really upsetting. And
um I think once I gave them a shot, they
they ultimately showed me like, oh, we
actually see that too. We just need to
go on this journey and like waste some
of our own time and some of yours. And
then we get to season 4 now where like
time is really like we're all under a
crunch together. In a way, the viewer,
we're all having sort of a return to
that ticket machine trauma, right? like
because we just are sitting here facing
this countdown clock the whole season
wondering what's going to happen what's
going to happen are we going to make it
and I do think like that feeling that
pressure feels very um human
>> it feels very related to you know my
experience on this planet
>> and even right now like I'm constantly
sort of pelted with like
>> the value of my time in a day and the
value of my own sort of like what that
costs me to give you my time and my
attention. And um and so I try to give a
little bit more of a critical view to
the way that I spend my own time. Like I
try to really think more carefully about
I guess maybe it's actually having like
a little more self-respect as I get
older or like valuing my own self a
little bit more and being like oh my
choosing to go to this party my choosing
to watch this show my choosing to spend
you know this hour outside with my
neighbors and having tea like these are
all it's there's value in that there's
value in my time and there's like an
inherent gift that I'm giving you or
that I'm receiving from you when I'm
getting or giving time. And so I do
think that there is something that the
people who make this show are thinking
about along the same lines. And it's
interesting to just see that sort of
being constantly turned on its head and
and worked out on different scales.
>> Yeah. I don't I feel like I don't know
where this show is going to go. I don't
know if if the punchline is going to
wind up being they're going to wind up
the the the circle of time is going to
close on itself
>> and the show maybe kind of almost as a
moral exercise begins where it started.
>> I mean I hope it gets to Yeah. And where
it started
>> cuz I really don't need another season
of this show. Maybe one more.
>> Me neither. I hoped it was I kind of was
like may cuz the last episode of season
4 is called the goodbye. I was like oh
it's over. Thank God. Like I don't have
to do any more of this.
>> Listen, FX is like, "Nah, no, Samine. We
did it. We got to the bottom of the
bear." Or did
>> I should say the bear probably got to
the bottom of us, but I'm But I'm also
glad you came to talk to me. I really
appreciate it.
>> Me, too. Such a delight.
>> All right. Talk to you soon.
Hey, you just watched a whole episode of
Cannonball. Just subscribe and come back
next week.
[Music]